Learning Data Science Effectively. 

Programming Language - Python and R.
Python is better since you can build a full stack app. 
Don't get stuck with Python. Just learn basics and move on with project and pickup as you need.
But do know some basics of python like,
variables, numbers, strings, lists, dictionaries, loops, conditional, functions, read/write files, modules.


After python - move to numpy and pandas,
allows us to do data cleaning and exploration. 
Data scientist spend majority of time in data cleaning. 
Again numpy and pandas are huge, hence only focus on few things there,
series, dataframes basics, creating dataframe from csv/excel/json, handling missing data, fillna, dropna, groupby, merge concat dataframes. 


Next we need editors, preferably jupyter Notebook and VS code. 


Next let's talk about data visualization; matplotlib and seaborn. 
For matplotlib:
linechart, barchart, pie chart, histograms, axes labels, legend, grid, scappter plot.


Then data collection; 
We should have good idea of sql. 
Getting the data that is scattered across tables into the format you want.
For that you will need to know how to perform queries, selects, merging. 


Then math and statistics
like,
linear algebra, mean, median, normal distribution, standard deviation, mode, variance, range, IQR, correclation, probability, conditionaly probability, priors, posteriors, maximum likelihood, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, regression, hypothesis testing, A/B testing.


Then machine learning, mainly sklearn;
regression: linear regression, classification: svm, decision tree, random forest, logistic regression, naive bayes, unsupervised learning: k-means, label and one hot encoding, train_test_split, K fold cross validation, GridSearchCV.


Then deep learning;
here,
tensorflow by Google, pytorch by Meta...
Just know one of these frameworks, 
then learn about Neural networks, CNN and RNN.


Then excel; for small data set it is very powerful.


Now to learn these tools, best approach is to do hands on project. Project based learning.
Learn whatever is needed in that project. >